.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.\" the date format is YYYY-MM-DD, see man 7 man-pages
.TH XMOTO 6 2008-01-11
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)

.SH NAME
X-Moto\(em2D motocross platform game

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xmoto
[options] 
.br
.B xmoto
[options] replay.rpl
.br
.B xmoto
[options] level.lvl

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B X-Moto
is a challenging 2D motocross platform game, where physics plays an important role in the gameplay. You need to control your bike to its limit, if you want to have a chance finishing the more difficult of the challenges.

.SH GAMEPLAY
A number of strawberries are typically spread around each level, which generally consists of a complicated landscape seen from the side\(emi.e. much like islands in the sky. You need to collect all those berries to finish the level\(emwhen you've got the last one, you need find the sunflower which will complete the level when you touch it. Variations to this basic gameplay may be found around some of the levels.

Your motocross bike is likewise seen from the side, and you control its throttle, braking, and simple changes to the attitude by jerking the bike back and forth. Additionally you can change the direction of your driving, by rotating on the spot.

You control your bike using the keyboard. The following keys are the default values, but may be changed from inside the game:
.TP
.B Up\ arrow
Accelerate.
.TP
.B Down\ arrow
Brake.
.TP
.B Left\ arrow
Rotate counter-clockwise.
.TP
.B Right\ arrow
Rotate clockwise.
.TP
.B Space
Turn around and drive in the other direction.

.PP
Additionally, some other keys can be pressed while playing:
.TP
.B Escape
Pause the game, and open the in-game menu.
.TP
.B TAB
Autozoom animation. Zooms out so that you can see the whole level. 
.TP
.B F2 
Switch the camera to the ghost, so you can follow it and see how the level can be mastered.
.TP
.B F3 
Add the current level to favorites while playing. Press again to remove from favorites.
.TP
.B F5
Restart the level while playing.  Rebuild the database if pressed while in the main menu.
.TP
.B F7 
Show/hide frames-per-second counter.
.TP
.B F8 
Activate/Deactivate Internet connection.
.TP
.B F9 
Switch to the "Ugly mode". Saves a lot of CPU time and shows some secret passages. 
.TP
.B F10 
Theme Mode. It can be used to test custom graphics. Also helps to avoid wreckers.
.TP 
.B F11 
Line Mode. This mode is mostly for testing. Draws lines around blocks and shows zones.
.TP 
.B F12 
Take a Screenshot. The file is saved into the xmoto directory.
.TP
.B Ctrl+i 
Toggle replay interpolation. Makes replays look smoother when turned on.
.TP
.B Ctrl+m
Toggle mirror mode. Wanna have twice as many levels?
.TP
.B Ctrl+b
Blacklist/unblacklist a level while playing. 
.TP
.B Ctrl+s
enable/disable sound.
.TP
.B Ctrl+o
display the option window
.TP
.B PgUp 
Jump to the previous level while playing.
.TP
.B PgDown 
Jump to the next level while playing.
.TP
.B Alt+Enter
Toggle fullscreen. Aslo changes your "run windowed/fullscreen" setting. 
.\" FIXME:http://todo.xmoto.tuxfamily.org/index.php?do=details&task_id=250
.\" find out what options have this behaviour
.SH OPTIONS
.B Most of these options also change your config settings, so be careful!
.TP
.B \-h, \-?, \-help, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-res, \-\-resolution <widthxheight>
Forces a specific display resolution.
.TP
.B \-\-bpp  <bits>
Forces a specific number of bits per pixel.
.TP
.B \-fs, \-\-fullscreen
Forces the game to run in fullscreen mode.
.TP
.B \-win, \-\-windowed
Forces the game to run in windowed mode.
.TP
.B \-\-nosound
Turns off sound effects, even if they are enabled in the config.
.TP
.B \-r, \-\-replay <replay>
Play the replay and quit afterwards.
.TP
.B \-ri, \-\-replayInfos <replay>
Display information about the replay and quit.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Be verbose and output debug messages on the standard output.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-level\  id
Start playing the specified level right away. If
.I id
is a number the corresponding built-in level is selected, otherwise it should be the identifier of an external level (not the file name).
.TP
.B \-\-levelFile <FILE>
Start playing the given level right away.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Enables debug mode.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-profile\  name
Use the player profile specified by
.IR name .
.TP
.B \-\-children
Force children compliant mode. It removes levels not suitable for children.
.TP
.B \-\-configpath path
Use
.IR path
as the xmoto configuration path.
.TP
.B \-ll, \-\-listlevels
Output the list of available levels and quit.
.TP
.B \-lr, \-\-listreplays
Output the list of available replays and quit.
.TP
.B \-\-fps
Enables framerate display.
.TP
.B \-td, \-\-timedemo
Tries to render the game as fast as possible. No delaying, maximum framerate.
.TP
.B \-\-benchmark
Only meaningful when combined with \-\-replay and \-\-timedemo. Useful to determine graphics performance.
.TP
.B \-\-nowww
Do not  allow xmoto to connect to the web.
.TP
.B \-\-testTheme
Enables testThemeMode. This will display the collision forms over the sprites of the theme to check if the theme is nicely designed.
.TP
.B \-\-drawlib drawlib
Choose which rendering engine to use (default one is OPENGL if available). You do not need this unless you *really* know what you are doing.
.TP
.B \-\-noexts
Do not use any OpenGL extensions.
.TP
.B \-\-novobs
Don't use VOB OpenGL extension (GL_ARB_vertex_buffer_object).
.TP
.B \-\-ugly
Enables "the ugly" mode. This will increase the game's framerate significantly, but it will also make the graphics look very ugly\(emmost things inside the game will be drawn with lines, the rider for instance being a simple stick figure. This option is very useful if your system doesn't have a proper OpenGL-capable video card (like for instance if you have a laptop with on-board video card). If you have the right amount of CPU power, it should even be possible to run X-Moto in OpenGL software emulation mode (MesaGL on linux, Windows' OpenGL fallback driver, etc).
.TP
.B \-\-defaultTheme theme
Set
.IR theme
as default theme for new profiles created. This is mostly useful for packagers wanting to set the theme of their distribution by default.
.TP
.B \-\-noDBDirsCheck
Don't check that system and user dirs changed at startup. It is mainly useful if you use X-Moto on a USB key.
.TP
.B \-\-server
Run X-Moto as a server only (no gui).
.TP
.B \-\-serverPort <port>
Specify the server port (with \-\-server only).
.TP
.B \-\-serverAdminPassword <password>
Specify a server admin password which is always valid (with \-\-server only).
.TP
.B \-\-connectAtStartup
Connect the client to the server at startup.
.TP
.B \-\-updateLevelsOnly
Only update levels (no gui).
.TP
.B \-\-noLog
Disable logging into xmoto.log
.TP
.B \-\-pack bin dir
Build a
.IR bin
package from the directory
.IR dir .
.TP
.B \-\-unpack bin dir no_list
Unpack the
.IR bin
package into the dir
.IR dir .
Add
.IR no_list
if you do not need a list of all extracted files.
.TP
.B \-\-cleancache
Deletes the content of the level cache.
.\" .TP
.\" .B \-\-gdebug
.\" dont mention options that are not in \-h!!!
.TP
.B \-\-cleanNoWWWLevels
Check web levels list and remove levels which are not available on the web (removed files are put into ~/.xmoto/Trash/Levels)
.TP
.B \-\-sqlTrace
Enable sql trace mode.
.TP
.B      \-\-videoRecording
Enable video recording while plaing/replaying (should be used with \-\-replay and \-\-benchmark).
.TP
.B       \-\-videoRecordingSizeDivision DIVISION
Change video size (1=full, 2=50%, 4=25%).
.TP
.B      \-\-videoRecordingFramerate FRAMERATE
Change video framerate.
.TP
.B	\-\-videoRecordingStartTime NBCENTSOFSECONDS
Start recording video after NBCENTSOFSECONDS time elapsed.
.TP
.B	\-\-videoRecordingEndTime NBCENTSOFSECONDS
Stop recording video after NBCENTSOFSECONDS time elapsed.
.TP
.B	\-\-hidePlayingInformation
Don't show some information while playing/replaying ; useful to make nicer video.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B view a replay in windowed mode:
.br
xmoto \-\-windowed ~/.xmoto/Replays/replay.rpl
.br
.B disable sounds, Internet connection and play mylevel.lvl directly:
.br
xmoto \-\-nosound \-\-nowww mylevel.lvl

.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\" xmoto-edit is deprecated. Should I leave it here and write "deprecated, use inksmoto"?
.\" or delete completely?
.\" (01:08:08 PM) Jean-Marc: hum, remove it
.\".BR xmoto\-edit (6).

.\" Use of an  AUTHORS  section  is strongly discouraged(man 7 man-pages) 
.SH AUTHORS
.B xmoto
was written by Rasmus Neckelmann <neckelmann@gmail.com>, Nicolas Adenis-Lamarre <nadenislamarre@free.fr> and Emmanuel Gorse <e.gorse@free.fr>.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please fill out bug reports on our website: <http://todo.xmoto.tuxfamily.org/>, or write to xmoto@tuxfamily.org.

.\" .SH COPYRIGHT
.\" Copyright © 2007 Rasmus Neckelmann, Nicolas Adenis-Lamarre, Emmanuel Gorse. 
.\" This is free software. You may redistribute copies of it under the terms of the GNU  General Public  License <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>. There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.PP
This manual page was written by Samuel Mimram <smimram@debian.org>,
for the Debian project. Updated by Amand 
Tihon <amand.tihon@alrj.org> and AvovA. 
